# Academic-Project-
Water resources are natural resources of water that are potentially useful. Uses of water include  agricultural, industrial, household, recreational and environmental activities. Surface water is  water which includes water present in a river, lake or fresh water wetland. Surface water is  naturally replenished by precipitation and naturally lost through discharge, evaporation,  evapotranspiration and groundwater recharge. Monitoring the surface water and area covered by  it continually is challenging task. Here where remote sensing technology comes into the picture.  Due to its wide applications in different filed and also it is cost and time efficient it has gain its  popularity over period of time. In the present study we have tried to use remote sensing data which  is in form of image. In this we have focuses on the estimating area covered by surface water bodies  in Anand City using remote sensing data. Image processing is a method to perform some operations  on an image, in order to get an enhanced image or to extract some useful information from it. It is  a type of signal processing in which input is an image and output may be image or  characteristics/features associated with that image. In Current study we have used the satellite  images, acquired from the USGS (United States Geological Survey) site and Google earth pro to  estimate the water cover in Anand city. Statistical and geostatistical analyses were performed on  satellite data in ArcGIS to estimate the area statistics of water bodies. For this we use statistical  technique like supervised classification in which maximum likelihood classification technique was  used. Results from the study were determined in which estimated area covered surface water  bodies was obtained and also it was tried to understand the relationship between area and the  temperature for different time points.
